doc/content/guides/getting-started/configuration.md, before:

---
title: "Configuration"
description: ""
weight: 3
---

The Things Stack can be started for development without passing any configuration. However, there are a number of things you need to configure for a production deployment. In this guide we'll set environment variables in the `docker-compose.yml` file to configure The Things Stack as a private deployment on `your.thethingsstack.io`.

## Databases

We need to configure an SQL database, in this guide we'll use a single instance of [CockroachDB](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/). Make sure to find a recent tag of the [cockroachdb/cockroach image on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/cockroachdb/cockroach/tags) and update it in the `docker-compose.yml` file. Make sure that the `volumes` are set up correctly so that the database is persisted on your server's disk.

The simplest configuration for CockroachDB will look like this:

```yml
cockroach:
  image: cockroachdb/cockroach:<the tag>
  command: start --http-port 26256 --insecure
  restart: unless-stopped
  volumes:
    - ./data/cockroach:/cockroach/cockroach-data
```

Read the CockroachDB documentation for setting up a highly available cluster.

We also need to configure [Redis](https://redis.io/), in this guide we'll use a single instance of Redis. Just as with the SQL database, find a recent tag of the [redis image on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/redis?tab=tags) and update it in the `docker-compose.yml` file. Again, make sure that the `volumes` are set up correctly so that the datastore is persisted on your server's disk.

The simplest configuration for Redis will look like this:

```yml
redis:
  image: redis:<the tag>
  command: redis-server --appendonly yes
  restart: unless-stopped
  volumes:
    - ./data/redis:/data
```

Read the Redis documentation for setting up a highly available cluster.

## The Things Stack

Before we go into the details of The Things Stack's configuration, we'll take a look at the basics. Below you see part the configuration of the `stack` service in the `docker-compose.yml` file. As with the databases, you need to find a recent tag of the [thethingsnetwork/lorawan-stack image on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/thethingsnetwork/lorawan-stack/tags) and update the `docker-compose.yml` file with that. We tell Docker Compose to start the container with `ttn-lw-stack start`, we indicate that it depends on CockroachDB and Redis, and we configure a volume for storing blobs (such as profile pictures).

The `ports` section exposes The Things Stack's ports to the world. Port `80` and `443` are mapped to the internal HTTP and HTTPS ports. The other ports have a direct mapping. If you don't need support for gateways and applications that don't support TLS, you can remove ports starting with `188`.

```yml
stack:
  image: thethingsnetwork/lorawan-stack:<the tag>
  entrypoint: ttn-lw-stack
  command: start
  restart: unless-stopped
  depends_on:
    - cockroach
    - redis
  volumes:
    - ./acme:/var/lib/acme
    - ./data/blob:/srv/ttn-lorawan/public/blob
  ports:
    - "80:1885"
    - "443:8885"
    - "1882:1882"
    - "8882:8882"
    - "1883:1883"
    - "8883:8883"
    - "1884:1884"
    - "8884:8884"
    - "1887:1887"
    - "8887:8887"
    - "1700:1700/udp"
```

Next, we'll have a look at the configuration options for your private deployment. These options are set in the `environment` section of the `stack` service in `docker-compose.yml`.

First we'll make sure that The Things Stack uses the correct databases.

```
TTN_LW_IS_DATABASE_URI=postgres://root@cockroach:26257/ttn_lorawan?sslmode=disable
TTN_LW_REDIS_ADDRESS=redis:6379
```

Then we'll configure TLS with Let's Encrypt. Since we're deploying The Things Stack on `your.thethingsstack.io`, we configure it to only request certificates for that host, and to also use it as the default host.

```
TTN_LW_TLS_ACME_ENABLE=true
TTN_LW_TLS_ACME_DIR=/var/lib/acme
TTN_LW_TLS_ACME_EMAIL=your@email.com
TTN_LW_TLS_ACME_HOSTS=your.thethingsstack.io
TTN_LW_TLS_ACME_DEFAULT_HOST=your.thethingsstack.io
```

Next, we'll configure the HTTP server with keys for encrypting and verifying cookies, and with passwords for endpoints that you may want to keep for internal use.

```
TTN_LW_HTTP_COOKIE_HASH_KEY=generate 64 bytes (openssl rand -hex 64)
TTN_LW_HTTP_COOKIE_BLOCK_KEY=generate 32 bytes (openssl rand -hex 32)
TTN_LW_HTTP_METRICS_PASSWORD=choose a password
TTN_LW_HTTP_PPROF_PASSWORD=choose a password
```

The Things Stack sends emails to users, so we need to configure how those are sent. 

```
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_SENDER_NAME=The Things Stack
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_SENDER_ADDRESS=noreply@your.thethingsstack.io
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_NETWORK_CONSOLE_URL=https://your.thethingsstack.io/console
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_NETWORK_IDENTITY_SERVER_URL=https://your.thethingsstack.io/oauth
```

You can either use Sendgrid or an SMTP server. If you don't set up an email provider, The Things Stack will print emails to the server log.

```
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_PROVIDER=sendgrid
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_SENDGRID_API_KEY=enter Sendgrid API key
```

or

```
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_PROVIDER=smtp
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_SMTP_ADDRESS=enter mail server address
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_SMTP_USERNAME=enter username
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_SMTP_PASSWORD=enter password
```

Finally, we need to configure the Web UI to use `your.thethingsstack.io`.

```
TTN_LW_IS_OAUTH_UI_CANONICAL_URL=https://your.thethingsstack.io/oauth
TTN_LW_IS_OAUTH_UI_IS_BASE_URL=https://your.thethingsstack.io/api/v3

TTN_LW_CONSOLE_OAUTH_AUTHORIZE_URL=https://your.thethingsstack.io/oauth/authorize
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_OAUTH_TOKEN_URL=https://your.thethingsstack.io/oauth/token

TTN_LW_CONSOLE_UI_CANONICAL_URL=https://your.thethingsstack.io/console
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_UI_AS_BASE_URL=https://your.thethingsstack.io/api/v3
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_UI_GS_BASE_URL=https://your.thethingsstack.io/api/v3
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_UI_IS_BASE_URL=https://your.thethingsstack.io/api/v3
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_UI_JS_BASE_URL=https://your.thethingsstack.io/api/v3
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_UI_NS_BASE_URL=https://your.thethingsstack.io/api/v3

TTN_LW_CONSOLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=console
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=choose or generate a secret
```

You will need the `TTN_LW_CONSOLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET` again in a later step.

## Command-line interface

The command-line interface is configured to connect to `localhost` by default. In order to make it connect to `your.thethingsstack.io`, you need to configure it with a configuration file. The recommended way to configure the CLI is with a `.ttn-lw-cli.yml` in your `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME` or `$HOME` directory. You can also put the config file in a different location, and pass it to the CLI as `-c path/to/config.yml`. Your config file should look like this:

```yml
oauth-server-address: https://your.thethingsstack.io/oauth

identity-server-grpc-address: your.thethingsstack.io:8884
gateway-server-grpc-address: your.thethingsstack.io:8884
network-server-grpc-address: your.thethingsstack.io:8884
application-server-grpc-address: your.thethingsstack.io:8884
join-server-grpc-address: your.thethingsstack.io:8884
device-template-converter-grpc-address: your.thethingsstack.io:8884
```

Commit message:

doc: Use example.com subdomains

doc/content/guides/getting-started/configuration.md, after:

---
title: "Configuration"
description: ""
weight: 3
---

The Things Stack can be started for development without passing any configuration. However, there are a number of things you need to configure for a production deployment. In this guide we'll set environment variables in the `docker-compose.yml` file to configure The Things Stack as a private deployment on `thethings.example.com`.

## Databases

We need to configure an SQL database, in this guide we'll use a single instance of [CockroachDB](https://www.cockroachlabs.com/). Make sure to find a recent tag of the [cockroachdb/cockroach image on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/cockroachdb/cockroach/tags) and update it in the `docker-compose.yml` file. Make sure that the `volumes` are set up correctly so that the database is persisted on your server's disk.

The simplest configuration for CockroachDB will look like this:

```yml
cockroach:
  image: cockroachdb/cockroach:<the tag>
  command: start --http-port 26256 --insecure
  restart: unless-stopped
  volumes:
    - ./data/cockroach:/cockroach/cockroach-data
```

Read the CockroachDB documentation for setting up a highly available cluster.

We also need to configure [Redis](https://redis.io/), in this guide we'll use a single instance of Redis. Just as with the SQL database, find a recent tag of the [redis image on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/_/redis?tab=tags) and update it in the `docker-compose.yml` file. Again, make sure that the `volumes` are set up correctly so that the datastore is persisted on your server's disk.

The simplest configuration for Redis will look like this:

```yml
redis:
  image: redis:<the tag>
  command: redis-server --appendonly yes
  restart: unless-stopped
  volumes:
    - ./data/redis:/data
```

Read the Redis documentation for setting up a highly available cluster.

## The Things Stack

Before we go into the details of The Things Stack's configuration, we'll take a look at the basics. Below you see part the configuration of the `stack` service in the `docker-compose.yml` file. As with the databases, you need to find a recent tag of the [thethingsnetwork/lorawan-stack image on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/thethingsnetwork/lorawan-stack/tags) and update the `docker-compose.yml` file with that. We tell Docker Compose to start the container with `ttn-lw-stack start`, we indicate that it depends on CockroachDB and Redis, and we configure a volume for storing blobs (such as profile pictures).

The `ports` section exposes The Things Stack's ports to the world. Port `80` and `443` are mapped to the internal HTTP and HTTPS ports. The other ports have a direct mapping. If you don't need support for gateways and applications that don't support TLS, you can remove ports starting with `188`.

```yml
stack:
  image: thethingsnetwork/lorawan-stack:<the tag>
  entrypoint: ttn-lw-stack
  command: start
  restart: unless-stopped
  depends_on:
    - cockroach
    - redis
  volumes:
    - ./acme:/var/lib/acme
    - ./data/blob:/srv/ttn-lorawan/public/blob
  ports:
    - "80:1885"
    - "443:8885"
    - "1882:1882"
    - "8882:8882"
    - "1883:1883"
    - "8883:8883"
    - "1884:1884"
    - "8884:8884"
    - "1887:1887"
    - "8887:8887"
    - "1700:1700/udp"
```

Next, we'll have a look at the configuration options for your private deployment. These options are set in the `environment` section of the `stack` service in `docker-compose.yml`.

First we'll make sure that The Things Stack uses the correct databases.

```
TTN_LW_IS_DATABASE_URI=postgres://root@cockroach:26257/ttn_lorawan?sslmode=disable
TTN_LW_REDIS_ADDRESS=redis:6379
```

Then we'll configure TLS with Let's Encrypt. Since we're deploying The Things Stack on `thethings.example.com`, we configure it to only request certificates for that host, and to also use it as the default host.

```
TTN_LW_TLS_ACME_ENABLE=true
TTN_LW_TLS_ACME_DIR=/var/lib/acme
TTN_LW_TLS_ACME_EMAIL=your@email.com
TTN_LW_TLS_ACME_HOSTS=thethings.example.com
TTN_LW_TLS_ACME_DEFAULT_HOST=thethings.example.com
```

Next, we'll configure the HTTP server with keys for encrypting and verifying cookies, and with passwords for endpoints that you may want to keep for internal use.

```
TTN_LW_HTTP_COOKIE_HASH_KEY=generate 64 bytes (openssl rand -hex 64)
TTN_LW_HTTP_COOKIE_BLOCK_KEY=generate 32 bytes (openssl rand -hex 32)
TTN_LW_HTTP_METRICS_PASSWORD=choose a password
TTN_LW_HTTP_PPROF_PASSWORD=choose a password
```

The Things Stack sends emails to users, so we need to configure how those are sent. 

```
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_SENDER_NAME=The Things Stack
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_SENDER_ADDRESS=noreply@thethings.example.com
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_NETWORK_CONSOLE_URL=https://thethings.example.com/console
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_NETWORK_IDENTITY_SERVER_URL=https://thethings.example.com/oauth
```

You can either use Sendgrid or an SMTP server. If you don't set up an email provider, The Things Stack will print emails to the server log.

```
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_PROVIDER=sendgrid
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_SENDGRID_API_KEY=enter Sendgrid API key
```

or

```
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_PROVIDER=smtp
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_SMTP_ADDRESS=enter mail server address
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_SMTP_USERNAME=enter username
TTN_LW_IS_EMAIL_SMTP_PASSWORD=enter password
```

Finally, we need to configure the Web UI to use `thethings.example.com`.

```
TTN_LW_IS_OAUTH_UI_CANONICAL_URL=https://thethings.example.com/oauth
TTN_LW_IS_OAUTH_UI_IS_BASE_URL=https://thethings.example.com/api/v3

TTN_LW_CONSOLE_OAUTH_AUTHORIZE_URL=https://thethings.example.com/oauth/authorize
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_OAUTH_TOKEN_URL=https://thethings.example.com/oauth/token

TTN_LW_CONSOLE_UI_CANONICAL_URL=https://thethings.example.com/console
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_UI_AS_BASE_URL=https://thethings.example.com/api/v3
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_UI_GS_BASE_URL=https://thethings.example.com/api/v3
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_UI_IS_BASE_URL=https://thethings.example.com/api/v3
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_UI_JS_BASE_URL=https://thethings.example.com/api/v3
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_UI_NS_BASE_URL=https://thethings.example.com/api/v3

TTN_LW_CONSOLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID=console
TTN_LW_CONSOLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET=choose or generate a secret
```

You will need the `TTN_LW_CONSOLE_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET` again in a later step.

## Command-line interface

The command-line interface is configured to connect to `localhost` by default. In order to make it connect to `thethings.example.com`, you need to configure it with a configuration file. The recommended way to configure the CLI is with a `.ttn-lw-cli.yml` in your `$XDG_CONFIG_HOME` or `$HOME` directory. You can also put the config file in a different location, and pass it to the CLI as `-c path/to/config.yml`. Your config file should look like this:

```yml
oauth-server-address: https://thethings.example.com/oauth

identity-server-grpc-address: thethings.example.com:8884
gateway-server-grpc-address: thethings.example.com:8884
network-server-grpc-address: thethings.example.com:8884
application-server-grpc-address: thethings.example.com:8884
join-server-grpc-address: thethings.example.com:8884
device-template-converter-grpc-address: thethings.example.com:8884
```
